collections/access-and-request-materials/index.md, before:

---
layout: page-sidebar
title: Access & Request Materials
permalink: /collections/access-and-request-materials/
sidebar:
  - ["https://raccess.rockarch.org", Log into/Create a new RACcess account, arrow_forward]
  - ["https://dimes.rockarch.org", Search collections at DIMES, arrow_forward]
  - ["mailto:archive@rockarch.org", Schedule a Research Visit, email]
---

## How to Contact Us

Do you have a question about our holdings or how to get started on your research?
Contact the RAC Reference team at [archive@rockarch.org](mailto:archive@rockarch.org).

## How to Research at the RAC

Anyone can conduct research at the RAC. If we have archival materials that can be
useful to your research topic, you are welcome here.

Because of limited seating capacity, researchers need an appointment in order to
conduct in-person research in the RAC’s two Reading Rooms. Contact the RAC Reference
team at [archive@rockarch.org](mailto:archive@rockarch.org) to make your
appointment.

You will also need to create a researcher account in [RACcess](https://raccess.rockarch.org),
our online request and duplication management system.

Get started on your research by searching our online finding aid catalog [DIMES](https://dimes.rockarch.org).

## When We’re Open

The RAC’s two Reading Rooms are open Monday through Friday from 9:00
am to 5:00 pm, except for [designated holidays](holiday-schedule/).

Inclement weather can sometimes require the RAC to close for the safety of
our staff and researchers. During the winter, if ice or snow is predicted for
suburban New York, it is advisable to telephone the RAC at (914) 366-6300. A
recording noting a closure or delayed opening is generally posted by 7:30
a.m. If you have a scheduled research appointment, we will also do our best
to email you with as much advanced notice of the closure as possible.

## Amenities

Since the RAC is not located near restaurants or stores, we encourage
researchers to bring their own lunches. We have a researcher lounge with a
refrigerator and microwave. We also provide assorted cold beverages as
well as tea and coffee. WiFi is available throughout the RAC.


## How to Get to the RAC

### By Car

The RAC is located at 15 Dayton Avenue, Sleepy Hollow, New York 10591.

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m18!1m12!1m3!1d3006.9551381027577!2d-73.8373819843737!3d41.091826822227716!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x89c2bffc3b17f3b5%3A0x3329b3d8104d2fb9!2s15+Dayton+Ave%2C+Sleepy+Hollow%2C+NY+10591!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1560187749243!5m2!1sen!2sus" width="100%" height="300" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### By Train from New York City

The RAC is easily accessible by train from Grand Central Terminal in New
York City to Tarrytown on the Metro-North Hudson Line. If you’ve made
prior arrangements with the Reference team, the RAC will provide
transportation to and from RAC for the following trains:

- Departs Grand Central 8:46 a.m. Arrives Tarrytown 9:23 a.m.
- Departs Tarrytown 5:34 p.m. (Van leaves RAC at 5:15 p.m.) Arrives Grand Central 6:17 p.m

The train schedule may be subject to change, so be sure to check the
[Metro-North web site](http://www.mta.info) to verify departure times.
If you come on a different train or miss the RAC shuttle van, there is a taxi
stand at the Tarrytown station.

## What You Can Expect When You Get Here

When you arrive on the first day of your scheduled research visit, an
archivist will greet you and give you a brief orientation to make your visit
productive and positive.

We’re an archive of important historical materials, so we do have a few
simple rules that we ask all researchers to follow when they’re in the RAC’s
two Reading Rooms:

- Place your outerwear, bags, and other nonessential items in the
lockers provided.
- Use only pencils and laptops for notes. No pens.
- Food, beverages, and chewing gum are not permitted.
- Review one folder at a time and mark its place in the box with the OUT card
provided
- Items in folders should not be rearranged or removed.
- Avoid placing other items on top of documents. Ask the desk monitor
for book weights.
- If metal fasteners need to be removed, ask the desk monitor for
assistance.

Our Reading Rooms can be cool at times, so be sure and bring a sweater.
Generally speaking, you may use a digital camera or your phone or tablet
to photograph collection materials for research and educational purposes.
However, the desk monitors may place some restrictions on your
photography if the archival materials being handled are fragile or in poor
condition.

The RAC has several microfilm reader-scanners available in our Reading
Rooms which enable researchers to print or to save images from microfilm
onto flash drives. We encourage you to bring your own flash drive if you
anticipate using microfilm during your visit.

## Duplication Services and Fee Schedule

The RAC offers duplication services for on-site and off-site researchers. If
you have any questions about ordering copies of our holdings, please
contact the RAC Reference team at [archive@rockarch.org](mailto:archive@rockarch.org).

The RAC may decline to copy certain documents that in its judgment may
suffer damage as a result of duplication.

Duplication is done on a first-come, first-served basis. We strive to complete
all duplication requests within 60 days.

### Photocopying or PDFs

Duplication requests for photocopies or PDFs are limited to 500 pages per
order.

- Unit cost: $0.50 per page
- Service charge: $25.00 per order
- Shipping:
  - Electronic Delivery: free (PDFs only)
  - USPS (Domestic): $6.00
  - USPS (Mexico/Canada): variable cost
  - FedEx (International): variable cost

### Scans (TIFF or JPEG)

- Unit cost: $25.00 per image
- Service charge: $25.00 per order
- Shipping:
  - Electronic Delivery: free

### Audiovisual Materials

For on-site researchers, accessible (already digitized) audiovisual files are available for download at the RAC through our Virtual Vault.

For off-site researchers, the following fee schedule applies to audiovisual material for which we already have digital access files. If access files currently do not exist, the costs associated with "Outsourced Digitization" applies in addition to the following charges:

- Unit cost: $10.00 per title (Format: Audio MP3 or moving image MP4)
- Service charge: $25.00 per order
- Audiovisual material will be delivered electronically, unless otherwise arranged. The RAC does not create DVD or CD copies.
- Higher-resolution audiovisual files are to be arranged with the RAC. Please contact us at [archive@rockarch.org](mailto:archive@rockarch.org) for further information on time and cost estimates.

### Outsourced Duplication

Duplication of any material that is oversized, bound, three-dimensional, fragile, or damaged, as well as duplication of audiovisual materials, will be outsourced to an external vendor. Please contact us at
[archive@rockarch.org](mailto:archive@rockarch.org) for further details, including time and cost estimates.

## Copyright

The RAC strives to provide accurate general copyright information in our ﬁnding aids, but copyright ownership and restrictions can vary by collection and by author or creator of the material. It is the responsibility of the researcher/user of the material to make a determination of copyright and to obtain any necessary permissions prior to usage. Please contact the RAC Reference team at [archive@rockarch.org](mailto:archive@rockarch.org) if you have specific copyright questions.

## Citations

We understand that the requirements for citations may vary based on preferred style or citation manual or on publisher requirements. If you are citing to archival materials in the RAC, at a minimum we recommend that your citation include the following: Title of document, date of document, author of document, folder title, title of collection, and our institutional name: Rockefeller Archive Center. Finding aid (FA) number and box numbers can be useful, but since these numbers can change over time, they are not recommended for citation purposes. Please contact the RAC Reference team at [archive@rockarch.org](mailto:archive@rockarch.org) if you have specific citation questions.

Commit message:

updates for new library system;

collections/access-and-request-materials/index.md, after:

---
layout: page-sidebar
title: Access & Request Materials
permalink: /collections/access-and-request-materials/
sidebar:
  - ["https://raccess.rockarch.org", Log into/Create a new RACcess account, arrow_forward]
  - ["https://dimes.rockarch.org", Search collections at DIMES, arrow_forward]
  - ["https://library.rockarch.org", Search library materials, arrow_forward]
  - ["mailto:archive@rockarch.org", Schedule a Research Visit, email]
---

## How to Contact Us

Do you have a question about our holdings or how to get started on your research?
Contact the RAC Reference team at [archive@rockarch.org](mailto:archive@rockarch.org).

## How to Research at the RAC

Anyone can conduct research at the RAC. If we have archival materials that can be
useful to your research topic, you are welcome here.

Because of limited seating capacity, researchers need an appointment in order to
conduct in-person research in the RAC’s two Reading Rooms. Contact the RAC Reference
team at [archive@rockarch.org](mailto:archive@rockarch.org) to make your
appointment.

You will also need to create a researcher account in [RACcess](https://raccess.rockarch.org),
our online request and duplication management system.

Get started on your research by searching our online finding aid catalog [DIMES](https://dimes.rockarch.org).

As with our archival materials, Library materials are non-circulating and are only available in the RAC’s reading rooms.

## When We’re Open

The RAC’s two Reading Rooms are open Monday through Friday from 9:00
am to 5:00 pm, except for [designated holidays](holiday-schedule/).

Inclement weather can sometimes require the RAC to close for the safety of
our staff and researchers. During the winter, if ice or snow is predicted for
suburban New York, it is advisable to telephone the RAC at (914) 366-6300. A
recording noting a closure or delayed opening is generally posted by 7:30
a.m. If you have a scheduled research appointment, we will also do our best
to email you with as much advanced notice of the closure as possible.

## Amenities

Since the RAC is not located near restaurants or stores, we encourage
researchers to bring their own lunches. We have a researcher lounge with a
refrigerator and microwave. We also provide assorted cold beverages as
well as tea and coffee. WiFi is available throughout the RAC.


## How to Get to the RAC

### By Car

The RAC is located at 15 Dayton Avenue, Sleepy Hollow, New York 10591.

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m18!1m12!1m3!1d3006.9551381027577!2d-73.8373819843737!3d41.091826822227716!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x89c2bffc3b17f3b5%3A0x3329b3d8104d2fb9!2s15+Dayton+Ave%2C+Sleepy+Hollow%2C+NY+10591!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1560187749243!5m2!1sen!2sus" width="100%" height="300" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### By Train from New York City

The RAC is easily accessible by train from Grand Central Terminal in New
York City to Tarrytown on the Metro-North Hudson Line. If you’ve made
prior arrangements with the Reference team, the RAC will provide
transportation to and from RAC for the following trains:

- Departs Grand Central 8:46 a.m. Arrives Tarrytown 9:23 a.m.
- Departs Tarrytown 5:34 p.m. (Van leaves RAC at 5:15 p.m.) Arrives Grand Central 6:17 p.m

The train schedule may be subject to change, so be sure to check the
[Metro-North web site](http://www.mta.info) to verify departure times.
If you come on a different train or miss the RAC shuttle van, there is a taxi
stand at the Tarrytown station.

## What You Can Expect When You Get Here

When you arrive on the first day of your scheduled research visit, an
archivist will greet you and give you a brief orientation to make your visit
productive and positive.

We’re an archive of important historical materials, so we do have a few
simple rules that we ask all researchers to follow when they’re in the RAC’s
two Reading Rooms:

- Place your outerwear, bags, and other nonessential items in the
lockers provided.
- Use only pencils and laptops for notes. No pens.
- Food, beverages, and chewing gum are not permitted.
- Review one folder at a time and mark its place in the box with the OUT card
provided
- Items in folders should not be rearranged or removed.
- Avoid placing other items on top of documents. Ask the desk monitor
for book weights.
- If metal fasteners need to be removed, ask the desk monitor for
assistance.

Our Reading Rooms can be cool at times, so be sure and bring a sweater.
Generally speaking, you may use a digital camera or your phone or tablet
to photograph collection materials for research and educational purposes.
However, the desk monitors may place some restrictions on your
photography if the archival materials being handled are fragile or in poor
condition.

The RAC has several microfilm reader-scanners available in our Reading
Rooms which enable researchers to print or to save images from microfilm
onto flash drives. We encourage you to bring your own flash drive if you
anticipate using microfilm during your visit.

## Duplication Services and Fee Schedule

The RAC offers duplication services for on-site and off-site researchers. If
you have any questions about ordering copies of our holdings, please
contact the RAC Reference team at [archive@rockarch.org](mailto:archive@rockarch.org).

The RAC may decline to copy certain documents that in its judgment may
suffer damage as a result of duplication.

Duplication is done on a first-come, first-served basis. We strive to complete
all duplication requests within 60 days.

### Photocopying or PDFs

Duplication requests for photocopies or PDFs are limited to 500 pages per
order.

- Unit cost: $0.50 per page
- Service charge: $25.00 per order
- Shipping:
  - Electronic Delivery: free (PDFs only)
  - USPS (Domestic): $6.00
  - USPS (Mexico/Canada): variable cost
  - FedEx (International): variable cost

### Scans (TIFF or JPEG)

- Unit cost: $25.00 per image
- Service charge: $25.00 per order
- Shipping:
  - Electronic Delivery: free

### Audiovisual Materials

For on-site researchers, accessible (already digitized) audiovisual files are available for download at the RAC through our Virtual Vault.

For off-site researchers, the following fee schedule applies to audiovisual material for which we already have digital access files. If access files currently do not exist, the costs associated with "Outsourced Digitization" applies in addition to the following charges:

- Unit cost: $10.00 per title (Format: Audio MP3 or moving image MP4)
- Service charge: $25.00 per order
- Audiovisual material will be delivered electronically, unless otherwise arranged. The RAC does not create DVD or CD copies.
- Higher-resolution audiovisual files are to be arranged with the RAC. Please contact us at [archive@rockarch.org](mailto:archive@rockarch.org) for further information on time and cost estimates.

### Outsourced Duplication

Duplication of any material that is oversized, bound, three-dimensional, fragile, or damaged, as well as duplication of audiovisual materials, will be outsourced to an external vendor. Please contact us at
[archive@rockarch.org](mailto:archive@rockarch.org) for further details, including time and cost estimates.

## Copyright

The RAC strives to provide accurate general copyright information in our ﬁnding aids, but copyright ownership and restrictions can vary by collection and by author or creator of the material. It is the responsibility of the researcher/user of the material to make a determination of copyright and to obtain any necessary permissions prior to usage. Please contact the RAC Reference team at [archive@rockarch.org](mailto:archive@rockarch.org) if you have specific copyright questions.

## Citations

We understand that the requirements for citations may vary based on preferred style or citation manual or on publisher requirements. If you are citing to archival materials in the RAC, at a minimum we recommend that your citation include the following: Title of document, date of document, author of document, folder title, title of collection, and our institutional name: Rockefeller Archive Center. Finding aid (FA) number and box numbers can be useful, but since these numbers can change over time, they are not recommended for citation purposes. Please contact the RAC Reference team at [archive@rockarch.org](mailto:archive@rockarch.org) if you have specific citation questions.
