about-us/program-areas.md, before:

---
layout: page-sidebar
title: Program Areas
permalink: /about-us/program-areas/
---

## Archives Program

The Archives Program of the Rockefeller Archive Center fosters and supports a broad community
of users examining the history of philanthropy and its related endeavors. We acquire, preserve,
make accessible, and encourage research and scholarship in the papers and records of the
Rockefeller family and Rockefeller-founded institutions, and those of other foundations,
nonprofit organizations, and related individuals undertaking philanthropic work and scientific
and medical research. We engage in and advance the archival profession by ensuring that our staff
participates broadly in professional activities and organizations. We lead by example in the use
and dissemination of open source information management tools, and we advocate for open
access to information in all its forms.

The Archives Program achieves this mission through four interconnected function areas that
manage the Center’s archival holdings from acquisition to accessibility: Collections Management,
Processing, Reference, and Digital Program.

<a href="https://blog.rockarch.org" class="rac-blue-button">Bits &amp; Bytes</a>
<a href="https://docs.rockarch.org" class="rac-blue-button">Archive Documentation</a>
<a href="https://projectelectron.rockarch.org" class="rac-blue-button">Project Electron</a>

### Collections Management

Collections Management provides the critical physical control and the initial descriptive point of
access to our diverse and multi-format archival holdings while taking into account the needs of
the materials themselves. Through careful preservation and monitoring of our collections, we
strive to extend the lifecycle while sustaining the integrity of the collections. We serve as a
resource for preserving the Center’s audiovisual collections and for making these unique
resources accessible to our users. We also maintain and support the Center’s library of published
materials documenting the products and legacy of our donors as an important supplemental
resource for users of our archival holdings.

### Processing

The Processing team establishes and enhances intellectual and physical control of our archival
holdings by efficiently and effectively organizing, describing, and preserving all eligible materials,
regardless of form, medium, or creator, in order to facilitate user access onsite and online. In
working to reduce and ultimately eliminate the Center’s processing backlog, we ensure timely
open and equitable access to primary sources. We actively promote the use and understanding of
the historical record through the collection guides we create in accordance with DACS descriptive
standards, and all program policies, practices, and procedures foster accountability and
transparency. As we learn and grow through professional development, we seek opportunities to
contribute to the archival profession and collaborate with participants in related fields.

### Reference

The Reference Team promotes the accessibility and discoverability of archival collections to our
users. By responding to inquiries, educating researchers and donors on the scope and structure of
the collections, and providing physical access through our reading rooms, duplication services,
and digitization processes, we establish a genuine connection between our community of users
and our holdings.

### Digital Programs

The Digital Programs team facilitates broad and equitable access to and responsible preservation of
materials in our custody by providing technical leadership and expertise to staff in all program
areas. We further our work and the archival profession by taking a collaborative, transparent, and
standards-based approach, contributing to open-source systems and communities. We engage
researchers, staff, and donors to understand their needs, prioritize solutions, and produce high-quality
and useful tools and services.

## Research & Education Program

The Research and Education Program (R+E) at the RAC brings together historians, educators, and archivists to explore issues in the history of philanthropy for public, scholarly, and professional audiences and to cultivate new audiences for archival research. The team’s activities include digital publishing, conferences and workshops, educational outreach, practitioner engagement, and a competitive research stipend program. R+E helps further the RAC mission of access by providing a narrative entry into RAC archival collections and fostering broad engagement with the history of philanthropy.

The division’s flagship website, [_RE:source_](https://resource.rockarch.org), examines the role philanthropy has played in the world we live in today. From the civil rights movement to the development of business schools, from dance and theater to overseas agricultural development, private money has affected myriad aspects of social, political, economic, and cultural life both in the U.S. and globally. The aim of RE:source is to bring stories from the history of philanthropy to the general public as well as a foundation practitioner audience.

Through other activities, R+E works regularly with foundation staff and leadership, providing historical perspectives on philanthropic practice and program evolution. The team often serves as a bridge between practice and scholarship by contributing new research to scholarly communities at professional conferences and by organizing workshops and convenings on emerging issues in the fields of history, archives, and philanthropy.
Each year, the R+E Program administers a competitive stipend program, which provides travel reimbursement funds to researchers from around the world. These awards enable some fifty researchers annually to travel to Sleepy Hollow to work in the RAC collections.

Through R+E’s [Archival Education Program](https://resource.rockarch.org/archival-education/), the team develops archive projects with local schools that serve as laboratories for curriculum development. We work with students ranging in level from middle and high school to undergraduate. The open educational resources developed in these classrooms are hosted on OER Commons, and include documents, photographs, posters, advertisements, and film clips drawn from RAC holdings. The materials cover a range of topics such as voter education, wartime scholar rescue efforts, immigration, and scientific innovation. In addition to topical interest, these curricula support the development of interdisciplinary research as well as digital and information literacy skills.


<a href="https://resource.rockarch.org" class="rac-blue-button">RE:source</a>
<a href="https://resource.rockarch.org/archival-education/" class="rac-blue-button">Archival Education Program</a>

Commit message:

update Digital Strategies and Archives mission statements

about-us/program-areas.md, after:

---
layout: page-sidebar
title: Program Areas
permalink: /about-us/program-areas/
---

## Archives Program

The Archives Program of the Rockefeller Archive Center fosters and supports a broad community
of users examining the history of philanthropy and its related endeavors. We acquire, preserve,
make accessible, and encourage research and scholarship in the papers and records in our care. We engage in and advance the archival profession by ensuring that our staff participates broadly in professional activities and organizations. We lead by example in the use and dissemination of open source information management tools, and we advocate for open access to information in all its forms.

The Archives Program achieves this mission through four interconnected function areas that
manage the Center’s archival holdings from acquisition to accessibility: Collections Management,
Processing, Reference, and Digital Strategies.

<a href="https://blog.rockarch.org" class="rac-blue-button">Bits &amp; Bytes</a>
<a href="https://docs.rockarch.org" class="rac-blue-button">Archive Documentation</a>
<a href="https://projectelectron.rockarch.org" class="rac-blue-button">Project Electron</a>

### Collections Management

Collections Management provides the critical physical control and the initial descriptive point of
access to our diverse and multi-format archival holdings while taking into account the needs of
the materials themselves. Through careful preservation and monitoring of our collections, we
strive to extend the lifecycle while sustaining the integrity of the collections. We serve as a
resource for preserving the Center’s audiovisual collections and for making these unique
resources accessible to our users. We also maintain and support the Center’s library of published
materials documenting the products and legacy of our donors as an important supplemental
resource for users of our archival holdings.

### Processing

The Processing team establishes and enhances intellectual and physical control of our archival
holdings by efficiently and effectively organizing, describing, and preserving all eligible materials,
regardless of form, medium, or creator, in order to facilitate user access onsite and online. In
working to reduce and ultimately eliminate the Center’s processing backlog, we ensure timely
open and equitable access to primary sources. We actively promote the use and understanding of
the historical record through the collection guides we create in accordance with DACS descriptive
standards, and all program policies, practices, and procedures foster accountability and
transparency. As we learn and grow through professional development, we seek opportunities to
contribute to the archival profession and collaborate with participants in related fields.

### Reference

The Reference Team promotes the accessibility and discoverability of archival collections to our
users. By responding to inquiries, educating researchers and donors on the scope and structure of
the collections, and providing physical access through our reading rooms, duplication services,
and digitization processes, we establish a genuine connection between our community of users
and our holdings.

### Digital Strategies

The Digital Strategies team leads the ethical application of technology in all aspects of the RAC's work by connecting people to systems and expertise. We develop, implement, and maintain the organization’s archival systems and digital infrastructure; build capacity through training designed to empower our colleagues; center user perspectives to continually improve the usability and accessibility of our systems and collections; and participate in professional communities to further our work and the archival profession.

## Research & Education Program

The Research and Education Program (R+E) at the RAC brings together historians, educators, and archivists to explore issues in the history of philanthropy for public, scholarly, and professional audiences and to cultivate new audiences for archival research. The team’s activities include digital publishing, conferences and workshops, educational outreach, practitioner engagement, and a competitive research stipend program. R+E helps further the RAC mission of access by providing a narrative entry into RAC archival collections and fostering broad engagement with the history of philanthropy.

The division’s flagship website, [_RE:source_](https://resource.rockarch.org), examines the role philanthropy has played in the world we live in today. From the civil rights movement to the development of business schools, from dance and theater to overseas agricultural development, private money has affected myriad aspects of social, political, economic, and cultural life both in the U.S. and globally. The aim of RE:source is to bring stories from the history of philanthropy to the general public as well as a foundation practitioner audience.

Through other activities, R+E works regularly with foundation staff and leadership, providing historical perspectives on philanthropic practice and program evolution. The team often serves as a bridge between practice and scholarship by contributing new research to scholarly communities at professional conferences and by organizing workshops and convenings on emerging issues in the fields of history, archives, and philanthropy.
Each year, the R+E Program administers a competitive stipend program, which provides travel reimbursement funds to researchers from around the world. These awards enable some fifty researchers annually to travel to Sleepy Hollow to work in the RAC collections.

Through R+E’s [Archival Education Program](https://resource.rockarch.org/archival-education/), the team develops archive projects with local schools that serve as laboratories for curriculum development. We work with students ranging in level from middle and high school to undergraduate. The open educational resources developed in these classrooms are hosted on OER Commons, and include documents, photographs, posters, advertisements, and film clips drawn from RAC holdings. The materials cover a range of topics such as voter education, wartime scholar rescue efforts, immigration, and scientific innovation. In addition to topical interest, these curricula support the development of interdisciplinary research as well as digital and information literacy skills.


<a href="https://resource.rockarch.org" class="rac-blue-button">RE:source</a>
<a href="https://resource.rockarch.org/archival-education/" class="rac-blue-button">Archival Education Program</a>
